Getting started
===============

General approach
----------------

Follow these steps to run ``ANTARESS``:  

1. Define the system properties for the host star and its planets in a copy of `ANTARESS_systems.py <https://gitlab.unige.ch/bourrier/antaress/-/tree/0d7232f1a1b39757beb8a52762b9e95fd33b2591/Method/ANTARESS_launch/ANTARESS_systems.py>`_ that you can name `ANTARESS_settings_username.py`. The default file contains a mock system as example.  

2. Define your input datasets, and the modules to process and analyze them, in a copy of the configuration file `ANTARESS_settings.py <https://gitlab.unige.ch/bourrier/antaress/-/tree/0d7232f1a1b39757beb8a52762b9e95fd33b2591/Method/ANTARESS_launch/ANTARESS_settings.py>`_ that you can name `ANTARESS_settings_username.py`. Although the default file allows running ``ANTARESS`` with minimal intervention, any detailed analysis will require that you define your own settings.  

3. Launch the workflow with the python commands::

       from ANTARESS_launch.ANTARESS_launcher import ANTARESS_launcher 
       ANTARESS_launcher(user = username) 


Modules
-------

Modules are grouped in three main categories:

- ``Formatting/correction``: Data first go through these modules, some of which are specific to given instruments. Once data are set in the common ``ANTARESS`` format and corrected for instrumental/environmental effects, they can be processed in the same way by the subsequent modules. 

- ``Processing``: The second group of modules are thus generic and aim at extracting specific types of spectral profiles, converting them in the format required for the analysis chosen by the user.

- ``Analysis``: The third group of modules allow fitting the processed spectral profiles to derive quantities of interest. 


``Formatting/correction`` and ``Processing`` modules are ran successively, ie that data need to pass through an earlier module before it can be used by the next one. ``Analysis`` modules, in contrast, are applied to the outputs of various ``Processing`` modules throughout the pipeline. 

Each module can be activated independently. Some of the ``Formatting/correction`` and ``Processing`` modules are optional, for example the ``Telluric correction`` module for space-borne data or the ``Flux scaling`` module for data with absolute photometry. Some modules are only activated if the pipeline is used for a specific goal, for example the ``CCF conversion`` of stellar spectra when the user requires the analysis of the Rossiter-McLaughlin effect.

In most modules you can choose to calculate data (in which case it will then be automatically saved on disk) or to retrieve it (in which case the pipeline will check these data already exists). This approach was mainly motivated by the fact that keeping all data in memory is not possible when processing S2D spectra, so that ``ANTARESS`` works by retrieving the relevant data from the disk in each module. 


Plots
-----

Plots are generated at the end of the workflow processing, upon request.

At the end of each module settings in the `configuration file <https://gitlab.unige.ch/bourrier/antaress/-/tree/0d7232f1a1b39757beb8a52762b9e95fd33b2591/Method/ANTARESS_launch/ANTARESS_settings.py>`_, you can activate a given `plot_name` by setting `plot_dic['plot_name']` to a figure extension, such as `pdf`.

The plot settings are then controlled through the `plot configuration file <https://gitlab.unige.ch/bourrier/antaress/-/tree/0d7232f1a1b39757beb8a52762b9e95fd33b2591/Method/ANTARESS_plots/ANTARESS_plot_settings.py>`_.

Because plots may require specific outputs of large size, the latter are not generated by default. This means you need to activate the plot as described above for the workflow to save the required outputs when the module is ran.
